For this project I want to see if there are patterns in the emotions expressed in classical paintings, and whether there is correlation between that and the art genres or historical events. 

The paintings are gathered from the collection in The MET by using their API. In order to find a clean dataset of paintings with faces only, I filtered in only paintings under the parameters of European Paintings department, and Drawings and Prints department with the search query "Portrait". The dataset generated includes the artworks' names, the years of completion, and the images of the artworks. 

I then used the FER library (Facial Expression Recognizer) to detect the emotions expressed in the paintings categorized by angry, disgust, fear, happy, sad, surprise, and neutral. Each emotion is given a score between 0 to 1 and the highest ranking emotion is attached to the item in a new column as well. The result is then plotted onto several scatterplots using matplotlib to see the correlation between the emotions depicted and the years of completion. 

From the result, it seems like the most commonly depicted emotions are sad and neutral. There is also this trend where it seems like emotions are being depicted less and less over the years. This is largely related to paintings being sacred in the ancient European context. Having the world view and art production based on religion (christianity), individual personalities were not emphasized and secular suffering was a major theme. Being expressionless and looking disinterest was the go-to expression for European portraits. 